feat(docs): add more configuration details to the HPA docs (#6019)
SeldonIO/seldon-core: docs-gb/kubernetes/hpa-rps-autoscaling.md

* Configuring HPA manifests to scale Models and the corresponding Server replicas based on the
  custom metrics

## Installing and configuring the Prometheus Adapter

> The role of the Prometheus Adapter is to expose queries on metrics in prometheus as k8s custom

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The role of the Prometheus Adapter is to expose queries on metrics in Prometheus as k8s custom
```

> In the commands above, we install `prometheus-adapter` as a helm release named `hpa-metrics` in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These commands install `prometheus-adapter` as a helm release named `hpa-metrics` in
```

> the same namespace as our prometheus install, and point to its service URL (without the port).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the same namespace where Prometheus is installed, and point to its service URL (without the port).
```

> The URL is not fully qualified as we are referencing prometheus from within the same namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The URL is not fully qualified as you are referencing Prometheus from within the same namespace.
```

> If you are using a separately-managed prometheus instance, please update the URL accordingly.

Author: ```suggestion
If you are using a separately-managed Prometheus instance, please update the URL accordingly.
```

> If running prometheus on a different port than the default 9090, you can also pass `--set

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are running Prometheus on a different port than the default 9090, you can also pass `--set
```

itself, named `[helm_release_name]-prometheus-adapter`. In our case, it will be
`hpa-metrics-prometheus-adapter`.

> We want to overwrite this ConfigMap as shown in the following example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Overwrite the ConfigMap as shown in this example.
```

{% hint style="warning" %}

> Please change the `name` if you've chosen a different value for the `prometheus-adapter` helm release name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Change the `name` if you've chosen a different value for the `prometheus-adapter` helm release name.
```

> Please change the `namespace` to match the namespace where `prometheus-adapter` is installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Change the `namespace` to match the namespace where `prometheus-adapter` is installed.
```

data:
  config.yaml: |-
    "rules":
    -
      "seriesQuery": |
         {__name__=~"^seldon_model.*_total",namespace!=""}
      "seriesFilters":
        - "isNot": "^seldon_.*_seconds_total"
        - "isNot": "^seldon_.*_aggregate_.*"
      "resources":
        "overrides":
          "model": {group: "mlops.seldon.io", resource: "model"}
          "server": {group: "mlops.seldon.io", resource: "server"}
          "pod": {resource: "pod"}
          "namespace": {resource: "namespace"}
      "name":
        "matches": "^seldon_model_(.*)_total"
        "as": "${1}_rps"
      "metricsQuery": |
        sum by (<<.GroupBy>>) (
          rate (
            <<.Series>>{<<.LabelMatchers>>}[1m]
          )
        )
````
{% endcode %}

In this example, a single rule is defined to fetch the `seldon_model_infer_total` metric
from Prometheus, compute its rate over a 1 minute window, and expose this to k8s as the `infer_rps`
metric, with aggregations at model, server, inference server pod and namespace level.

> A list of all the Prometheus metrics exposed by Seldon Core 2 is available [here](../metrics/operational.md),

Author: ```suggestion
A list of all the Prometheus metrics exposed by Seldon Core 2 in relation to Models, Servers and Pipelines is available [here](../metrics/operational.md),
```

> In our example, a single rule is defined to fetch the `seldon_model_infer_total` metric
> from Prometheus, compute its rate over a 1 minute window, and expose this to k8s as the `infer_rps`
> metric, with aggregations at model, server, inference server pod and namespace level.
> 
> A list of all the Prometheus metrics exposed by Core 2 is available [here](../metrics/operational.md),
> and those may be used when customizing the example above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, a single rule is defined to fetch the `seldon_model_infer_total` metric
from Prometheus, compute its rate over a 1 minute window, and expose this to k8s as the `infer_rps`
metric, with aggregations at model, server, inference server Pod and namespace level.

A list of all the Prometheus metrics exposed by Seldon Core 2 is available [here](../metrics/operational.md),
and those may be used when customizing this example.
```

              matchLabels:
                method_type: rest
          target:
    	    type: AverageValue
            averageValue: "3"
    ```
*   Customize scale-up / scale-down rate & properties by using scaling policies as described in
    the [HPA scaling policies docs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/horizontal-pod-autoscale/#configurable-scaling-behavior)

*   For more resources, please consult the [HPA docs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/horizontal-pod-autoscale/)
    and the [HPA walkthrough](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/horizontal-pod-autoscale-walkthrough/)

## Cluster operation guidelines when using HPA-based scaling

> When deploying HPA-based scaling for Core 2 models and servers as part of a production deployment,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When deploying HPA-based scaling for Seldon Core 2 models and servers as part of a production deployment,
```

> it is important to understand the exact interactions between HPA-triggered actions and Core 2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it is important to understand the exact interactions between HPA-triggered actions and Seldon Core 2
```

or, when running workloads in the cloud, any provider-specific cluster autoscaling services.

{% hint style="warning" %}
It is important for the cluster to have sufficient resources for creating the total number of
desired server replicas set by the HPA CRs across all the models at a given time.

Not having sufficient cluster resources to serve the number of replicas configured by HPA at a
given moment, in particular under aggressive scale-up HPA policies, may result in breaches of
SLAs. This is discussed in more detail in the following section.
{% endhint %}

A similar approach should be taken for setting `minReplicas`, in relation to estimated RPS in
the low-load regime. However, it's useful to balance lower resource usage to immediate
availability of replicas for inference rate increases from that lowest load point. If low-load
regimes only occur for small periods of time, and especially combined with a high rate of increase
in RPS when moving out of the low-load regime, it might be worth to set the `minReplicas` floor
higher in order to ensure SLAs are met at all times.

### Customizing HPA policy settings for ensuring correct scaling behaviour

> Each `spec.replica` value change for a Model or Server triggers a rescheduling event for the
> Core 2 scheduler, which will consider any updates that are needed in mapping Model replicas to
> Server replicas (i.e rescheduling failed Model replicas, loading new ones, unloading).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each `spec.replica` value change for a Model or Server triggers a rescheduling event for the
Seldom Core 2 scheduler, which considers any updates that are needed in mapping Model replicas to
Server replicas  such as rescheduling failed Model replicas, loading new ones, unloading, and others.
```

Two characteristics in the current implementation are important in terms of
autoscaling and configuring the HPA scale-up policy:

> - The scheduler will not create new Server replicas when the existing replicas are not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The scheduler does not create new Server replicas when the existing replicas are not
```

    sufficient for loading a Model's replicas (one Model replica per Server replica). Whenever
    a Model requests more replicas than available on any of the available Servers, its `ModelReady`
    condition transitions to `Status: False` with a `ScheduleFailed` message. However, any
    replicas of that Model that are already loaded at that point remain available for servicing
    inference load.

- There is no _partial_ scheduling of replicas. For example, consider a model with 2 replicas,
    currently loaded on a server with 3 replicas (two of those server replicas will have the
    model loaded). If you update the model replicas to 4, the scheduler will transition the
    model to `ScheduleFailed`, seeing that it cannot satisfy the requested number of replicas.
    The existing 2 model replicas will continue to serve traffic, *but a third replica will
    not be loaded* onto the remaining server replica.

>     In other words, the scheduler will either be able to schedule all the requested replicas, or,
>     if unable to do so, will leave the state of the cluster unchanged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In other words, the scheduler either schedules all the requested replicas, or,
    if unable to do so, leaves the state of the cluster unchanged.
```

      happen anyway. Because the underlying Server replica pods are part of a stateful set, they
      are created sequentially by k8s.

{% code title="hpa-custom-policy.yaml" lineNumbers="true" %}
```yaml
apiVersion: autoscaling/v2
kind: HorizontalPodAutoscaler
metadata:
  name: irisa0-model-hpa
  namespace: seldon-mesh
spec:
  scaleTargetRef:
    ...
  minReplicas: 1
  maxReplicas: 3
  behavior:
    scaleUp:
      stabilizationWindowSeconds: 60
      policies:
      - type: Pods
        value: 5
        periodSeconds: 90
  metrics:
    ...
```
{% endcode %}

- The duration of transient load spikes which you might want to absorb within the existing
  per-replica RPS margins.
    - The previous example, at line 13, configures a scale-up stabilization window of one minute.
      It means that for all of the HPA recommended replicas in the last 60 second window (4
      samples of the custom metric considering the default sampling rate), only the *smallest*
      will be applied.
    - Such stabilization windows should be set depending on typical load patterns in your
        cluster: not being too aggressive in reacting to increased load will allow you to

>         achieve cost savings, but has the disadvantage of a delayed reaction load spike turns

Author: ```suggestion
        achieve cost savings, but has the disadvantage of a delayed reaction if the load spike turns
```
